README.md, before:

# Welcome to your Lovable project

## Project info

**URL**: https://lovable.dev/projects/7ae67eef-a24f-4b2d-abfe-1c7967d70a19

## How can I edit this code?

There are several ways of editing your application.

**Use Lovable**

Simply visit the [Lovable Project](https://lovable.dev/projects/7ae67eef-a24f-4b2d-abfe-1c7967d70a19) and start prompting.

Changes made via Lovable will be committed automatically to this repo.

**Use your preferred IDE**

If you want to work locally using your own IDE, you can clone this repo and push changes. Pushed changes will also be reflected in Lovable.

The only requirement is having Node.js & npm installed - [install with nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm#installing-and-updating)

Follow these steps:

```sh
# Step 1: Clone the repository using the project's Git URL.
git clone <YOUR_GIT_URL>

# Step 2: Navigate to the project directory.
cd <YOUR_PROJECT_NAME>

# Step 3: Install the necessary dependencies.
cd frontend
npm install

# Step 4: Start the development server with auto-reloading and an instant preview.
npm run dev
```

**Edit a file directly in GitHub**

- Navigate to the desired file(s).
- Click the "Edit" button (pencil icon) at the top right of the file view.
- Make your changes and commit the changes.

**Use GitHub Codespaces**

- Navigate to the main page of your repository.
- Click on the "Code" button (green button) near the top right.
- Select the "Codespaces" tab.
- Click on "New codespace" to launch a new Codespace environment.
- Edit files directly within the Codespace and commit and push your changes once you're done.

## What technologies are used for this project?

This project is built with:

- Vite
- TypeScript
- React
- shadcn-ui
- Tailwind CSS

## How can I deploy this project?

Simply open [Lovable](https://lovable.dev/projects/7ae67eef-a24f-4b2d-abfe-1c7967d70a19) and click on Share -> Publish.

## Can I connect a custom domain to my Lovable project?

Yes, you can!

To connect a domain, navigate to Project > Settings > Domains and click Connect Domain.

Read more here: [Setting up a custom domain](https://docs.lovable.dev/tips-tricks/custom-domain#step-by-step-guide)

# What I have done to connect backend to frontend?
# Running the project

### Frontend
```sh
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```

### Backend

```sh
cd backend
# Option A: run with Docker Compose
docker-compose up --build # If image hasn't been built
# Option B: run directly with Uvicorn
uvicorn app.main:app --reload
```

## Security

See [SECURITY.md](SECURITY.md) for details on encryption, authentication, audit logging, and data retention.

Commit message:

Integrate upload, dashboard, and report APIs

README.md, after:

# Welcome to your Lovable project

## Project info

**URL**: https://lovable.dev/projects/7ae67eef-a24f-4b2d-abfe-1c7967d70a19

## How can I edit this code?

There are several ways of editing your application.

**Use Lovable**

Simply visit the [Lovable Project](https://lovable.dev/projects/7ae67eef-a24f-4b2d-abfe-1c7967d70a19) and start prompting.

Changes made via Lovable will be committed automatically to this repo.

**Use your preferred IDE**

If you want to work locally using your own IDE, you can clone this repo and push changes. Pushed changes will also be reflected in Lovable.

The only requirement is having Node.js & npm installed - [install with nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm#installing-and-updating)

Follow these steps:

```sh
# Step 1: Clone the repository using the project's Git URL.
git clone <YOUR_GIT_URL>

# Step 2: Navigate to the project directory.
cd <YOUR_PROJECT_NAME>

# Step 3: Install the necessary dependencies.
cd frontend
npm install

# Step 4: Start the development server with auto-reloading and an instant preview.
npm run dev
```

**Edit a file directly in GitHub**

- Navigate to the desired file(s).
- Click the "Edit" button (pencil icon) at the top right of the file view.
- Make your changes and commit the changes.

**Use GitHub Codespaces**

- Navigate to the main page of your repository.
- Click on the "Code" button (green button) near the top right.
- Select the "Codespaces" tab.
- Click on "New codespace" to launch a new Codespace environment.
- Edit files directly within the Codespace and commit and push your changes once you're done.

## What technologies are used for this project?

This project is built with:

- Vite
- TypeScript
- React
- shadcn-ui
- Tailwind CSS

## How can I deploy this project?

Simply open [Lovable](https://lovable.dev/projects/7ae67eef-a24f-4b2d-abfe-1c7967d70a19) and click on Share -> Publish.

## Can I connect a custom domain to my Lovable project?

Yes, you can!

To connect a domain, navigate to Project > Settings > Domains and click Connect Domain.

Read more here: [Setting up a custom domain](https://docs.lovable.dev/tips-tricks/custom-domain#step-by-step-guide)

# What I have done to connect backend to frontend?
# Running the project

### Frontend
```sh
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```

### Backend

```sh
cd backend
# Option A: run with Docker Compose
docker-compose up --build # If image hasn't been built
# Option B: run directly with Uvicorn
uvicorn app.main:app --reload
```

### Manual E2E test

1. Start backend services: `docker-compose up` (from repository root).
2. Run the frontend dev server:
   ```sh
   cd frontend
   npm install
   npm run dev
   ```
3. Sign up and log in through the app.
4. Navigate to **Upload** and choose an Excel file. The UI will show statuses for upload, validate, and ingest.
5. After ingestion, open **Dashboard**. A list of dashboards loads and the selected one is embedded via Metabase.
6. Open **Reports**, choose a template, generate a report, wait for status `ready`, then download the file.

## Security

See [SECURITY.md](SECURITY.md) for details on encryption, authentication, audit logging, and data retention.
